Add procedures to migrate from RHEL8to9 using backups (#3103)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_migrating-project-or-smartproxy-using-backup.adoc

You can migrate your existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} from {EL}{nbsp}8 to a freshly installed {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
ifdef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore or clone on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
[NOTE]
====
You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups but not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.
====
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
endif::[]

.Procedure
. Perform a full backup of your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxy}.
This is the source {EL}{nbsp}8 server that you are migrating.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin#Performing_a_Full_Backup_admin[Performing a full backup of {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
. Deploy a system with {EL}{nbsp}9.
This is the target server.
ifdef::satellite[]
. Restore the {ProjectServer} backup by following one of these options:
** Restore the backup.

> Restore does not significantly alter the source system and requires additional configuration.

Reviewer: Do you mean *target* system? A restore (obviously?) doesn't affect the source.

Author: Oops you're right! Fixed!

[id="migrating-{project-context}-or-proxy-using-backup_{context}"]
= Migrating {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL}{nbsp}9

You can migrate your existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} from {EL}{nbsp}8 to a freshly installed {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
ifdef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore or clone on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
[NOTE]
====

> Cloning only works for {ProjectServer} backups and not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups but not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.
```

> You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups and not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups but not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.
```

====
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
endif::[]

.Procedure
. Perform a full backup of your {Project} or {SmartProxy}.
This is the source {EL}{nbsp}8 server that you are migrating.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin#Performing_a_Full_Backup_admin[Performing a full backup of {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
. Deploy a {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
This is the target server.
Install {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} on the target {EL}{nbsp}9 system:

> ** To install {ProjectServer} from a connected network, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[{InstallingServerDocTitle}].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To install connected {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDocTitle}_].
```
The referred doc title contains the full wording, so we can simplify it.

ifdef::satellite[]

> ** To install {ProjectServer} from a disconnected network, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To install disconnected {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_].
```
Same here.

endif::[]

> ** To install a {SmartProxyServer}, see {InstallingSmartProxyDocURL}[{InstallingSmartProxyDocTitle}].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To install a {SmartProxyServer}, see {InstallingSmartProxyDocURL}[_{InstallingSmartProxyDocTitle}_].
```

ifdef::satellite[]
. Use either of these two procedures to restore backup from {Project}. 

> ** Restore does not alter the source system much and requires additional configuration by the user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Restore does not significantly alter the source system and requires additional configuration by the user.
```

For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}restoring-{project-context}-server-or-{smart-proxy-context}-from-a-backup_admin[Restoring {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} from a backup] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

> ** Clone configures hostname for the target and the user can test it before retiring the original source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Clone the server.
Clone configures hostname for the target server and you can test it before retiring the source server.
```

For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}cloning_{project-context}_server#sec-Cloning_to_Target[Cloning to the target server] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
. To restore the {SmartProxy} backup, follow the steps in {AdministeringDocURL}restoring-{project-context}-server-or-{smart-proxy-context}-from-a-backup_admin[Restoring {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} from a backup] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_. 
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]

> . Restore the backups from {Project} or {SmartProxy}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Restore the {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} backups.
```

[id="migrating-{project-context}-or-proxy-using-backup_{context}"]

> = Migrating {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL}{nbsp}9

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Migrating {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL-abbr}{nbsp}9
```
Let's use the abbreviation to make the heading consistent with Leapp.

You can migrate your existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} from {EL}{nbsp}8 to a freshly installed {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
ifdef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore or clone on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
[NOTE]
====
You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups but not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.
====
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
endif::[]

.Procedure
. Perform a full backup of your {Project} or {SmartProxy}.
This is the source {EL}{nbsp}8 server that you are migrating.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin#Performing_a_Full_Backup_admin[Performing a full backup of {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
. Deploy a system with {EL}{nbsp}9.
This is the target server.
Install {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} on the target {EL}{nbsp}9 system:

> ** To install connected {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDocTitle}_].
> ifdef::satellite[]
> ** To install disconnected {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "connected" ]
** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDocTitle}_].
endif::[]
ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "disconnected" ]
** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_].
```
Please, check whether the :mode: attribute is defined for the Upgrading guides. If not, please add them to `master.adoc` files accordingly.

[id="migrating-{project-context}-or-proxy-using-backup_{context}"]
= Migrating {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL-abbr}{nbsp}9

You can migrate your existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} from {EL}{nbsp}8 to a freshly installed {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
ifdef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore or clone on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
[NOTE]
====
You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups but not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.
====
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
endif::[]

.Procedure

> . Perform a full backup of your {Project} or {SmartProxy}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Perform a full backup of your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.
```
For consistency.

This is the source {EL}{nbsp}8 server that you are migrating.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin#Performing_a_Full_Backup_admin[Performing a full backup of {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
. Deploy a system with {EL}{nbsp}9.
This is the target server.
Install {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} on the target {EL}{nbsp}9 system:

> ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "connected" ]
> ** To install connected {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDocTitle}_].
> endif::[]
> ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "disconnected" ]
> ** To install disconnected {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_].
> endif::[]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "connected" ]
** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDocTitle}_].
endif::[]
ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "disconnected" ]
** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_].
endif::[]
```
I strongly suggest removing those keywords. Two reasons: 1) in upstream, there's only one ProjectServer and that is connected, and 2) the keywords appear in the DocTitles where appropriate.

** To install a {SmartProxyServer}, see {InstallingSmartProxyDocURL}[_{InstallingSmartProxyDocTitle}_].
ifdef::satellite[]
. Restore the {ProjectServer} backup by following one of these options:
** Restore the backup.
Restore does not significantly alter the source system and requires additional configuration.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}restoring-{project-context}-server-or-{smart-proxy-context}-from-a-backup_admin[Restoring {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} from a backup] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
** Clone the server.
Clone configures hostname for the target server and you can test it before retiring the source server.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}cloning_{project-context}_server#sec-Cloning_to_Target[Cloning to the target server] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

> . To restore the {SmartProxy} backup, follow the steps in {AdministeringDocURL}restoring-{project-context}-server-or-{smart-proxy-context}-from-a-backup_admin[Restoring {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} from a backup] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Restore the {SmartProxyServer} backup.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}restoring-{project-context}-server-or-{smart-proxy-context}-from-a-backup_admin[Restoring {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} from a backup] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_. 
```
For consistency.

[NOTE]
====
You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups but not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.
====
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
endif::[]

.Procedure
. Perform a full backup of your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxy}.
This is the source {EL}{nbsp}8 server that you are migrating.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin#Performing_a_Full_Backup_admin[Performing a full backup of {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
. Deploy a system with {EL}{nbsp}9.
This is the target server.
Install {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} on the target {EL}{nbsp}9 system:
ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "connected" ]
** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDocTitle}_].
endif::[]
ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "disconnected" ]
** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_].

> endif::[]

Reviewer: Sorry that I didn't catch that earlier.

> endif::[]

Author: I have added a line mentioning this and added some conditionals for builds. @Lennonka could you review the changes?

> endif::[]

Reviewer: The doc for restore you're linking to already starts with "you need to install Satellite", so I wonder if we even need to mention installation here, or rather say:
1. create a backup
2. create an empty el9 machine
3. restore/clone/whatever

> endif::[]

Reviewer 2: Perhaps it would be better to split the migration into two modules: _Migrating ... by using backup_ and _Migrating ... by cloning_. It isn't necessary to do a backup when cloning, is it? @evgeni @AkshayGadhaveRH

> endif::[]

Reviewer: a backup is the input to clone, so no, it is required.

essentially, the steps you do on the SOURCE are identical for backup and clone, the steps you do on the TARGET are different.

** To install a {SmartProxyServer}, see {InstallingSmartProxyDocURL}[_{InstallingSmartProxyDocTitle}_].
ifdef::satellite[]
. Restore the {ProjectServer} backup by following one of these options:
** Restore the backup.
Restore does not significantly alter the source system and requires additional configuration.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}restoring-{project-context}-server-or-{smart-proxy-context}-from-a-backup_admin[Restoring {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} from a backup] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
** Clone the server.
Clone configures hostname for the target server and you can test it before retiring the source server.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}cloning_{project-context}_server#sec-Cloning_to_Target[Cloning to the target server] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

> . Restore the {SmartProxy} backup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Restore the {SmartProxyServer} backup.
```

[id="migrating-{project-context}-or-proxy-using-backup_{context}"]
= Migrating {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL-abbr}{nbsp}9

You can migrate your existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer} from {EL}{nbsp}8 to a freshly installed {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
ifdef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore or clone on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
[NOTE]
====
You can use cloning for {ProjectServer} backups but not for {SmartProxyServer} backups.
====
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
The migration involves creating a backup of the existing {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}, which you then restore on the new {EL}{nbsp}9 system.
endif::[]

.Procedure
. Perform a full backup of your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxy}.
This is the source {EL}{nbsp}8 server that you are migrating.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin#Performing_a_Full_Backup_admin[Performing a full backup of {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
. Deploy a system with {EL}{nbsp}9.
This is the target server.

> ifdef::satellite[]
> The {ProjectServer} backup can be cloned to the target without installing {Project} on the target server.
> If you plan to restore the backup on the target server, install {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} on the target {EL}{nbsp}  system:
> endif::[]
> ifndef::satellite[]
> Install {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} on the target {EL}{nbsp}9 system:
> endif::[]
> ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "connected" ]
> ** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDocTitle}_].
> endif::[]
> ifeval::[ "{mode}" == "disconnected" ]
> ** To install {ProjectServer}, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}[_{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_].
> endif::[]
> ** To install a {SmartProxyServer}, see {InstallingSmartProxyDocURL}[_{InstallingSmartProxyDocTitle}_].

Reviewer 2: As @evgeni says, we can remove all this because it's mentioned in the prerequisites of the _Restoring_ section.
```suggestion
```

ifdef::satellite[]
. Restore the {ProjectServer} backup by following one of these options:
** Restore the backup.
Restore does not significantly alter the source system and requires additional configuration.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}restoring-{project-context}-server-or-{smart-proxy-context}-from-a-backup_admin[Restoring {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} from a backup] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
** Clone the server.
Clone configures hostname for the target server and you can test it before retiring the source server.

> For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}cloning_{project-context}_server#sec-Cloning_to_Target[Cloning to the target server] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}#sec-Cloning_to_Target[Cloning to the target server] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
```
Otherwise, the link won't work.

> . Restore the {SmartProxy} backup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Restore the {SmartProxyServer} backup.
```
